.TH VERBX-BATCH 1 "March 2026" "verbx 0.7.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
verbx-batch \- parallel manifest-driven render workflows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B verbx batch
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBbatch\fR command group supports manifest templating and parallel
batch render execution for large-scale processing jobs.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B template
Print a batch manifest template to stdout.
.TP
.B render MANIFEST
Run batch jobs with scheduling and retry options.
.SH render OPTIONS
.TP
.B --jobs INT
Worker count (\fB0\fR means auto).
.TP
.B --schedule [fifo|shortest-first|longest-first]
Batch ordering policy.
.TP
.B --retries INT
Retry count per failed job.
.TP
.B --continue-on-error / --fail-fast
Continue after failures or stop immediately.
.TP
.B --checkpoint-file PATH
Persist per-job completion state as jobs finish.
.TP
.B --resume
Resume from --checkpoint-file and skip already completed jobs.
.TP
.B --dry-run
Validate and print execution plan without rendering.
.TP
.B --lucky INT
Generate N randomized render variants per manifest job.
.TP
.B --lucky-out-dir PATH
Output directory for lucky render variants.
.TP
.B --lucky-seed INT
Deterministic seed for lucky batch expansion.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B verbx batch template > manifest.json
Create starter manifest.
.TP
.B verbx batch render manifest.json --jobs 8 --schedule longest-first
Execute parallel batch render.
.TP
.B verbx batch render manifest.json --checkpoint-file state.json --resume
Resume an interrupted batch and skip completed outputs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR verbx (1),
.BR verbx-render (1)
