.TH VERBX-C 1 "July 2026" "verbx-c 0.8.0-dev" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
verbx-c \- native experimental offline renderer for verbx
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B verbx-c
.BR help | version
.br
.B verbx-c doctor
.RB [ --json-out
.IR report.json ]
.br
.B verbx-c render
.I in.wav out.wav
.RB [ --rt60
.IR seconds ]
.RB [ --wet
.IR value ]
.RB [ --dry
.IR value ]
.RB [ --pre-delay-ms
.IR ms ]
.RB [ --damping
.IR value ]
.RB [ --tail-threshold-db
.IR db ]
.RB [ --tail-hold-ms
.IR ms ]
.RB [ --tail-metric
.BR peak | rms ]
.RB [ --peak-safe ]
.RB [ --peak-ceiling-db
.IR db ]
.RB [ --out-format
.BR pcm16 | float32 | float64 ]
.RB [ --json-out
.IR report.json ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B verbx-c
is the native C executable track for
.BR verbx .
It is an opt-in v0.8 transition binary, not a replacement for the Python
.B verbx
CLI. The current native scope is deterministic mono/stereo WAV offline render,
doctor diagnostics, and machine-readable support reports.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B help
Print command usage.
.TP
.B version
Print the native executable version.
.TP
.B doctor
Print native build, compiler, WAV I/O, and process-contract diagnostics.
.TP
.B render
Render a mono/stereo WAV file through the foundational native algorithmic
reverb path.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --json-out " PATH"
Write a machine-readable JSON report. Doctor emits
.BR native-doctor-report-v1 ;
render emits
.BR native-render-report-v1 .
.TP
.BI --rt60 " seconds"
Set decay time for the native offline reverb core.
.TP
.BI --wet " value"
Set wet gain.
.TP
.BI --dry " value"
Set dry gain.
.TP
.BI --pre-delay-ms " ms"
Set pre-delay in milliseconds.
.TP
.BI --damping " value"
Set damping amount.
.TP
.BI --tail-threshold-db " db"
Set tail-stop threshold in dBFS.
.TP
.BI --tail-hold-ms " ms"
Keep this many milliseconds after the tail-stop point.
.TP
.BI --tail-metric " peak|rms"
Choose the tail-stop metric.
.TP
.B --peak-safe
Enable output peak-safety scaling before writing.
.TP
.BI --peak-ceiling-db " db"
Set the peak-safety ceiling in dBFS.
.TP
.BI --out-format " pcm16|float32|float64"
Choose the output WAV subtype.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
verbx-c doctor --json-out native-doctor.json

verbx-c render dry.wav wet.wav \\
  --rt60 3.5 \\
  --wet 0.85 \\
  --dry 0.15 \\
  --peak-safe \\
  --peak-ceiling-db -1 \\
  --out-format float32 \\
  --json-out native-render.json
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR verbx (1),
.BR verbx-render (1)
