.TH VERBX 1 "March 2026" "verbx 0.7.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
verbx \- extreme reverb command-line processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B verbx
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBverbx\fR is a production-grade Python CLI for extreme algorithmic and
convolution reverb workflows.
It supports long-tail processing, freeze/repeat chains, synthetic IR generation,
loudness/peak targeting, multichannel routing, multi-source parameter
modulation, batch execution, immersive handoff/QC workflows, and analysis.
.PP
Use \fBverbx --help\fR for full command discovery.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B render INFILE OUTFILE [OPTIONS]
Render audio with algorithmic or convolution reverb.
.TP
.B analyze INFILE [OPTIONS]
Compute analysis metrics, including optional loudness and EDR summaries.
.TP
.B suggest INFILE
Suggest practical render defaults inferred from analysis.
.TP
.B presets
List built-in preset names.
.TP
.B version
Print installed CLI/package version.
.TP
.B ir ...
Impulse-response generation, analysis, processing, and fitting commands.
.TP
.B cache ...
Inspect and clear IR cache artifacts.
.TP
.B batch ...
Template and render batch-manifest workflows.
.TP
.B immersive ...
Immersive scene handoff packaging, QC, and distributed file-queue operations.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out.wav --engine algo --rt60 80 --wet 0.85 --dry 0.15
Long algorithmic reverb render.
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out.wav --engine conv --ir hall.wav --partition-size 32768
Convolution render using external IR.
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out/lucky.wav --lucky 12 --lucky-out-dir out/lucky_set
Generate 12 randomized "wild" variants in one output folder.
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out_mod.wav --mod-target mix --mod-source lfo:sine:0.08*0.7 --mod-source env:20:350*0.4
Layer multiple modulation sources to animate reverb depth over time.
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out_dual_mod.wav --mod-route wet:0.1:0.95:avg:20:lfo:sine:0.12 --mod-route gain-db:-9:3:sum:15:lfo:triangle:0.04
Assign different LFOs to different modulation targets.
.TP
.B verbx analyze in.wav --lufs --edr --json-out report.json
Analyze loudness and EDR metrics to JSON.
.TP
.B verbx version
Print installed version.
.TP
.B verbx immersive handoff scene.json out_dir --strict
Generate immersive sidecars/manifests and fail on policy, validation, or QC issues.
.TP
.B verbx immersive queue status queue.json
Inspect queue progress and failed/pending counts.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fBdocs/EXTREME_COOKBOOK.md\fR
100 extreme workflow recipes.
.TP
\fBdocs/IR_SYNTHESIS.md\fR
IR synthesis reference guide.
.TP
\fBdocs/REFERENCES.md\fR
Academic references curated for reverb DSP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR verbx-render (1),
.BR verbx-analyze (1),
.BR verbx-ir (1),
.BR verbx-batch (1)
.SH AUTHORS
verbx contributors.
