.TH VERBX-RENDER 1 "March 2026" "verbx 0.7.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
verbx-render \- render audio with extreme reverb processing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B verbx render
\fIINFILE\fR \fIOUTFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBrender\fR command is the main processing entrypoint.
It supports algorithmic FDN reverb, partitioned FFT convolution, freeze/repeat
chains, loudness/peak targets, ambient controls, and random lucky-mode batches.
.SH CORE OPTIONS
.TP
.B --engine [conv|algo|auto]
Select convolution, algorithmic, or automatic engine resolution.
.TP
.B --device [auto|cpu|cuda|mps]
Compute device preference.
\fBauto\fR is engine-aware:
convolution prefers CUDA when available, while algorithmic prefers Apple Silicon profile (\fBmps\fR) on arm64 macOS and CPU elsewhere.
.TP
.B --rt60 FLOAT
Target decay time in seconds.
.TP
.B --wet FLOAT
Wet level.
.TP
.B --dry FLOAT
Dry level.
.TP
.B --repeat INT
Repeat-pass count.
.TP
.B --freeze --start S --end E
Enable freeze segment looping.
.TP
.B --ir PATH
External impulse response path for convolution.
.TP
.B --ir-blend PATH
Repeatable additional IR path for render-time convolution blending.
.TP
.B --ir-blend-mix FLOAT
Blend coefficient for each --ir-blend IR (0..1; one value may be broadcast).
.TP
.B --ir-blend-mode [linear|equal-power|spectral|envelope-aware]
IR blend morph mode.
.TP
.B --ir-blend-early-ms FLOAT
Early/late split in milliseconds for envelope-aware or split blending.
.TP
.B --ir-blend-early-alpha FLOAT
Optional early-region alpha override for IR blending.
.TP
.B --ir-blend-late-alpha FLOAT
Optional late-region alpha override for IR blending.
.TP
.B --ir-blend-align-decay / --no-ir-blend-align-decay
Enable/disable decay alignment before blending.
.TP
.B --ir-blend-phase-coherence FLOAT
Spectral phase-coherence safeguard strength for IR blending (0..1).
.TP
.B --ir-blend-spectral-smooth-bins INT
Frequency smoothing radius (FFT bins) for spectral blending.
.TP
.B --ir-blend-cache-dir PATH
Cache directory used for blended/morphed IR artifacts.
.TP
.B --self-convolve
Use input file as its own IR.
.TP
.B --ir-gen
Auto-generate and cache an IR before rendering.
.TP
.B --beast-mode INT
Scale key reverb parameters for denser, longer tails.
.TP
.B --fdn-rt60-tilt FLOAT
Jot-style low/high RT skew around mid-band decay (\-1..1).
.TP
.B --fdn-tonal-correction-strength FLOAT
Track C tonal-correction strength (0..1) for multiband/tilted FDN decay equalization.
.TP
.B --room-size-macro FLOAT
Perceptual room-size macro (\-1..1) mapped to decay/timing behavior.
.TP
.B --clarity-macro FLOAT
Perceptual clarity macro (\-1..1) mapped to damping/decay balance.
.TP
.B --warmth-macro FLOAT
Perceptual warmth macro (\-1..1) mapped to tonal decay coloration.
.TP
.B --envelopment-macro FLOAT
Perceptual envelopment macro (\-1..1) mapped to width/decorrelation emphasis.
.TP
.B --mod-target [none|mix|wet|gain-db]
Enable dynamic parameter control target for modulation sources.
.TP
.B --mod-source SPEC
Repeatable modulation source. Formats:
lfo:sine:rate[:depth[:phase]][*weight],
env[:attack[:release]][*weight],
audio-env:path[:attack[:release]][*weight], or const:value[*weight].
.TP
.B --mod-min FLOAT
Minimum mapped value for modulation target.
.TP
.B --mod-max FLOAT
Maximum mapped value for modulation target.
.TP
.B --mod-combine [sum|avg|max]
How multiple modulation sources are combined.
.TP
.B --mod-smooth-ms FLOAT
Control-signal smoothing time constant in milliseconds.
.TP
.B --mod-route SPEC
Repeatable advanced modulation route:
target:min:max:combine:smooth_ms:src1,src2,...
Use this for independent source sets per parameter target.
.TP
.B --automation-file PATH
JSON/CSV automation lane file for render-time control.
Engine targets include rt60, damping, room-size, perceptual macros,
fdn-rt60-tilt, and fdn-tonal-correction-strength.
Convolution-target coverage includes ir-blend-alpha (requires --ir-blend).
.TP
.B --automation-point SPEC
Inline control point:
target:time_s:value[:interp]
(repeatable; use multiple points to build a lane).
.TP
.B --automation-mode [auto|sample|block]
Automation evaluation mode.
.TP
.B --automation-block-ms FLOAT
Control block size in milliseconds for block mode.
.TP
.B --automation-smoothing-ms FLOAT
Default smoothing time constant for automation lanes.
.TP
.B --automation-clamp SPEC
Per-target clamp override:
target:min:max
(repeatable).
.TP
.B --automation-trace-out PATH
Write resolved sample-level automation curves to CSV.
.SH ADVANCED OUTPUT OPTIONS
.TP
.B --target-lufs FLOAT
Integrated loudness target.
.TP
.B --target-peak-dbfs FLOAT
Peak ceiling target.
.TP
.B --normalize-stage [none|post|per-pass]
Normalization timing strategy.
.TP
.B --out-subtype [auto|float32|float64|pcm16|pcm24|pcm32]
Output subtype control.
.TP
.B --output-peak-norm [none|input|target|full-scale]
Final peak normalization mode.
.SH LUCKY MODE
.TP
.B --lucky N
Generate \fIN\fR randomized "wild" renders instead of one fixed render.
.TP
.B --lucky-out-dir DIR
Destination folder for lucky-mode outputs.
.TP
.B --lucky-seed INT
Deterministic seed for reproducible lucky batches.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out.wav --engine algo --rt60 60
Basic algorithmic render.
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out.wav --engine conv --ir hall.wav --partition-size 32768
Fast convolution render.
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out_blend.wav --engine conv --ir hall_A.wav --ir-blend hall_B.wav --ir-blend-mix 0.6 --ir-blend-mode envelope-aware
Blend two IRs at render time using Track D morph controls.
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out/lucky.wav --lucky 25 --lucky-out-dir out/lucky_set
Generate 25 randomized extreme variants.
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out_mod.wav --mod-target mix --mod-source lfo:sine:0.08*0.7 --mod-source env:20:350*0.4
Layer LFO and envelope sources to animate reverb depth.
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out_dual_mod.wav --mod-route wet:0.1:0.95:avg:20:lfo:sine:0.12 --mod-route gain-db:-9:3:sum:15:lfo:triangle:0.04
Use different LFOs to control different parameters.
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out_room_sweep.wav --engine algo --automation-point rt60:0.0:0.8 --automation-point rt60:10.0:8.0 --automation-point room-size:0.0:0.8 --automation-point room-size:10.0:1.8
Drive internal algorithmic room behavior over time from inline CLI points.
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out_trackc.wav --engine algo --fdn-rt60-tilt 0.4 --fdn-tonal-correction-strength 0.5 --room-size-macro 0.5 --warmth-macro 0.35 --envelopment-macro 0.45
Use Track C perceptual controls for Jot-inspired FDN shaping.
.TP
.B verbx render in.wav out_blend_sweep.wav --engine conv --ir hall_a.wav --ir-blend hall_b.wav --automation-point ir-blend-alpha:0.0:0.0 --automation-point ir-blend-alpha:15.0:1.0
Sweep IR blend coefficient over time during convolution rendering.
.SS CANONICAL LAUNCH MUSICAL EXAMPLES
.TP
.B verbx render voice.wav lucier_7pass.wav --engine algo --rt60 4.5 --wet 1.0 --dry 0.0 --repeat 7 --fdn-lines 16 --fdn-matrix hadamard --lowcut 60
Alvin Lucier-inspired iterative room resonance accumulation.
.TP
.B verbx render input.wav eno_ambient.wav --engine algo --rt60 12.0 --wet 0.92 --dry 0.08 --damping 0.25 --pre-delay-ms 35 --fdn-lines 16 --fdn-matrix hadamard --lowcut 50 --target-lufs -22 --target-peak-dbfs -2
Brian Eno-inspired long-tail ambient loopbed.
.TP
.B verbx render drone.wav deep_listening.wav --engine algo --rt60 18.0 --wet 0.95 --dry 0.10 --fdn-lines 32 --fdn-matrix hadamard --pre-delay-ms 55 --damping 0.15 --lowcut 30 --target-lufs -24 --target-peak-dbfs -2
Pauline Oliveros-inspired deep listening space.
.TP
.B verbx render guitar.wav frippertronics.wav --engine algo --rt60 8.0 --wet 0.82 --dry 0.28 --fdn-lines 16 --fdn-matrix hadamard --shimmer --shimmer-semitones 12 --shimmer-mix 0.45 --shimmer-feedback 0.78 --pre-delay-ms 25 --target-peak-dbfs -2
Frippertronics-style shimmer accumulation chain.
.TP
.B verbx render guitar.wav shoegaze.wav --engine algo --freeze --start 1.0 --end 2.4 --shimmer --shimmer-semitones 12 --shimmer-mix 0.55 --shimmer-feedback 0.72 --rt60 5.0 --wet 0.88 --dry 0.22 --fdn-matrix circulant --lowcut 80 --width 1.4 --target-peak-dbfs -2
Shoegaze reverse-wash (freeze plus shimmer) texture.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR verbx (1),
.BR verbx-analyze (1),
.BR verbx-ir (1)
