.TH VERBX-IR 1 "March 2026" "verbx 0.7.5" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
verbx-ir \- impulse response generation and processing commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B verbx ir
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBir\fR command group handles synthetic IR creation, IR analysis,
IR post-processing, and IR fitting from source audio.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B gen OUT_IR
Generate IR with deterministic cache support.
.TP
.B analyze IR_FILE
Analyze IR metrics (duration, RT60 estimate, decay profile, coherence).
.TP
.B process IN_IR OUT_IR
Apply shaping (filters, normalization, loudness targeting) to IR.
.TP
.B morph IR_A IR_B OUT_IR
Morph two IRs with cache-backed Track D blending modes.
.TP
.B fit INFILE OUT_IR
Analyze source, generate/scoring candidate IRs, and export top results.
.TP
.B sofa-info FILE.sofa
Inspect SOFA conventions, dimensions, and sample-rate metadata.
.TP
.B sofa-extract FILE.sofa OUT_IR
Extract SOFA FIR data as WAV matrix for convolution rendering.
.SH COMMON gen OPTIONS
.TP
.B --mode [fdn|stochastic|modal|hybrid]
IR synthesis mode.
.TP
.B --length FLOAT
IR length in seconds.
.TP
.B --sr INT
Output sample rate.
.TP
.B --channels INT
Output channel count.
.TP
.B --seed INT
Deterministic random seed.
.TP
.B --fdn-rt60-tilt FLOAT
Jot-style low/high RT skew around mid-band decay (\-1..1) for FDN/hybrid modes.
.TP
.B --fdn-tonal-correction-strength FLOAT
Track C tonal-correction strength (0..1) for multiband/tilted FDN decay equalization.
.TP
.B --room-size-macro FLOAT
Perceptual room-size macro (\-1..1) for FDN/hybrid generation.
.TP
.B --clarity-macro FLOAT
Perceptual clarity macro (\-1..1) for FDN/hybrid generation.
.TP
.B --warmth-macro FLOAT
Perceptual warmth macro (\-1..1) for FDN/hybrid generation.
.TP
.B --envelopment-macro FLOAT
Perceptual envelopment macro (\-1..1) for FDN/hybrid generation.
.TP
.B --f0 FREQ
Optional tuning anchor (e.g., 64Hz).
.TP
.B --analyze-input PATH
Analyze fundamentals/harmonics from input to tune generated IR.
.SH COMMON morph OPTIONS
.TP
.B --mode [linear|equal-power|spectral|envelope-aware]
Morph mode.
.TP
.B --alpha FLOAT
Global morph coefficient (0..1).
.TP
.B --early-ms FLOAT
Early/late split time in milliseconds.
.TP
.B --early-alpha FLOAT
Optional early-region alpha override.
.TP
.B --late-alpha FLOAT
Optional late-region alpha override.
.TP
.B --align-decay / --no-align-decay
Enable/disable RT-alignment before morphing.
.TP
.B --phase-coherence FLOAT
Spectral phase-coherence safeguard strength (0..1).
.TP
.B --spectral-smooth-bins INT
Frequency smoothing radius (FFT bins) for spectral modes.
.TP
.B --target-sr INT
Optional output sample rate target.
.TP
.B --cache-dir PATH
Cache directory for morphed IR artifacts and metadata.
.SH COMMON sofa-extract OPTIONS
.TP
.B --measurement-index INT
Measurement index for SOFA Data/IR extraction.
.TP
.B --emitter-index INT
Emitter index for rank-4 SOFA Data/IR extraction.
.TP
.B --target-sr INT
Optional output sample rate target.
.TP
.B --normalize [none|peak|rms]
Normalization mode for extracted IR.
.TP
.B --strict / --best-effort
Strict mode accepts rank-3 (M,R,N) and rank-4 (M,R,E,N) SOFA IR tensors only.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B verbx ir gen out_ir.wav --mode hybrid --length 120 --seed 7
Generate long hybrid IR.
.TP
.B verbx ir gen out_ir.wav --mode fdn --fdn-rt60-tilt 0.35 --fdn-tonal-correction-strength 0.45 --room-size-macro 0.4 --warmth-macro 0.5
Generate IR with Track C perceptual FDN controls.
.TP
.B verbx ir analyze out_ir.wav --json-out out_ir.analysis.json
Analyze generated IR.
.TP
.B verbx ir morph A.wav B.wav OUT.wav --mode envelope-aware --alpha 0.4 --early-ms 70
Morph two IRs with early/late-aware Track D controls.
.TP
.B verbx ir fit in.wav fit_ir.wav --top-k 3
Fit IR candidates from source analysis.
.TP
.B verbx ir sofa-info room.sofa --json-out room.sofa.json
Inspect SOFA metadata.
.TP
.B verbx ir sofa-extract room.sofa room_ir.wav --measurement-index 0 --target-sr 48000
Extract SOFA FIR matrix to WAV for \fBverbx render --engine conv\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR verbx (1),
.BR verbx-render (1)
