.TH VERBX-DEREVERB 1 "March 2026" "verbx 0.7.5" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
verbx-dereverb \- suppress late reverberation from existing audio files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B verbx dereverb
\fIINFILE\fR \fIOUTFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBverbx dereverb\fR applies deterministic, offline spectral suppression to
reduce late reverberant energy in a rendered or recorded signal.
It is intended for research workflows and reproducible batch processing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --mode wiener|spectral_sub
Select dereverberation algorithm (default: \fBwiener\fR).
.TP
.B --strength FLOAT
Suppression intensity in the range \fB0.0..2.0\fR.
.TP
.B --floor FLOAT
Residual floor in the range \fB0.0..1.0\fR to reduce musical-noise artifacts.
.TP
.B --window-ms FLOAT
STFT analysis window size in milliseconds.
.TP
.B --hop-ms FLOAT
STFT hop size in milliseconds. Must be smaller than \fB--window-ms\fR.
.TP
.B --tail-ms FLOAT
Late-field smoothing horizon in milliseconds.
.TP
.B --pre-emphasis FLOAT
Optional high-frequency emphasis (\fB0.0..0.98\fR) before suppression.
.TP
.B --mix FLOAT
Processed/wet mix in the range \fB0.0..1.0\fR.
.TP
.B --out-subtype auto|float32|float64|pcm16|pcm24|pcm32
Output encoding format.
.TP
.B --json-out PATH
Write a structured dereverb metrics report.
.TP
.B --quiet
Suppress console summary output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B verbx dereverb wet.wav dryish.wav --mode wiener --strength 0.9 --tail-ms 180
Apply Wiener-style late-tail suppression.
.TP
.B verbx dereverb wet.wav dryish.wav --mode spectral_sub --strength 0.7 --floor 0.1
Apply spectral-subtraction dereverberation with conservative floor protection.
.TP
.B verbx dereverb wet.wav dryish.wav --json-out dereverb_report.json
Emit detailed machine-readable metrics report.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR verbx (1),
.BR verbx-render (1),
.BR verbx-analyze (1)
.SH AUTHORS
verbx contributors.
