.TH VERBX-ANALYZE 1 "March 2026" "verbx 0.7.5" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
verbx-analyze \- analyze audio metrics including loudness and EDR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B verbx analyze
\fIINFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Analyze audio files and print structured metrics.
Optional outputs include JSON payloads and framewise CSV features.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --json-out PATH
Write full analysis payload to JSON.
.TP
.B --lufs
Include loudness metrics (\fBintegrated_lufs\fR, \fBtrue_peak_dbfs\fR, \fBlra\fR).
.TP
.B --edr
Include Energy Decay Relief summary metrics:
\fBedr_rt60_median_s\fR, \fBedr_rt60_low_s\fR, \fBedr_rt60_mid_s\fR,
\fBedr_rt60_high_s\fR, and \fBedr_valid_bins\fR.
.TP
.B --frames-out PATH
Write framewise feature CSV.
.TP
.B --ambi-order INT
Enable Ambisonics spatial metrics for the given order (0 disables).
.TP
.B --ambi-normalization [auto|sn3d|n3d|fuma]
Ambisonics normalization convention metadata for analysis mode.
.TP
.B --channel-order [auto|acn|fuma]
Ambisonics channel-order convention metadata for analysis mode.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B verbx analyze in.wav
Basic analysis table.
.TP
.B verbx analyze in.wav --lufs --edr
Include loudness and EDR summaries.
.TP
.B verbx analyze in.wav --json-out report.json --frames-out frames.csv
Export JSON and framewise CSV outputs.
.TP
.B verbx analyze bus_foa.wav --ambi-order 1 --ambi-normalization sn3d --channel-order acn
Analyze FOA content with explicit Ambisonics convention metadata.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR verbx (1),
.BR verbx-render (1)
